My name is Matt.
I'm a software engineer
working in cybersecurity.
When I was in high school,
what I really want
to do is music,
I was a musician.
I went to music school
for jazz trombone.
Partway through that
process, I realized, no,
bandleader in their right mind,
looks at a group and thinks,
we need a trombone player.
This is what makes us better.
I grew up watching
movies like The Matrix,
and it's not very
realistic to what cybersecurity
work actually is,
but it is inspiring.
If you dig through the work
at specifics of what
you do and take
the broad step back like you are
that cool guy with
sunglasses, you're a hacker.
When I first started
writing code,
I would look at coding errors
as a sign that I have done bad.
But as I grew older,
a little bit more mature,
I realized everyone
has coding errors.
Literally the very best
software engineer I
know writes code
and it has errors.
Errors represent a moment where
you can take a step back and
say, what did I do wrong?
It's a learning opportunity.
Now, I see these
like moments where
I can look at some
problems that I don't
understand and be like, why?
Dive into it and expand
my knowledge of computer
science, which is my whole job.
I see this as a learning
process and it's
a little bit fun.
One of the really messy coding
areas that I've run into
in my time here at Google
involved fingerprinting
when we find a vulnerability.
If we find the same
vulnerability later,
we don't want to have
two vulnerabilities,
we don't want to poke
someone twice and be like,
fix this thing if it's
the exact same thing.
We do this thing called
fingerprinting where we
say this vulnerability has
a specific fingerprint
and if we find
another vulnerability that
has the same fingerprint,
we're not going to store them
separately or treat
them separately.
They're effectively the same.
I was running into these errors
where things would not
fingerprint in the way
that I expected them to.
I was literally grinding
my gears for weeks,
trying to figure out what
is going on with this thing?
But when I found it was very
satisfying like, that's it.
When you're in the
middle of this mess,
all of that self-doubt
creeps into your brain.
You're like, maybe I'm
not as good at this thing
as I thought I was.
What I would go back and
tell myself: A), it's not endless -
it gets better. Once
you figure it out,
that feeling of
reward is incredible.
But B), also, it's okay
to rope people in
if you are struggling
with something,
I always advocate
for asking for help.
Most people are really
excited to go help you
out with this thing,
especially when it's
a convoluted problem.
I am so thrilled I ended
up in cybersecurity.
Cybersecurity is
having its moment.
People are realizing, waking
up to the amount of data
that they're putting out into
the world and they're
starting to care about it.
Every day there's something new.
Every day there's something
exciting for me to do and yeah,
get into it.
Cybersecurity is the way.